Global warming is the subject of may debates these  days. As a hot topic discussion has been going all around the world. 

It is considered by few  as the biggest challenge of all times, others think of it as a climate shift that occurred in the early 90s and has fallen flat since that time 

There are people  who believe global warming has their own scientific reasons to back their claims but also  others have their own reasons to disregard their theory. 

The most important thing about global warming and its impact on our planet is to understand it so We can at least try to meet the challenges posed by it.


Next time you are out among friends ask if people think that the global warming is real , this will most likely create a lively conversation going. It is a very hot topic for many and the arguments for and against global warming are not clear as they may appear and people are using the same data to prove different results. 

Here are the top arguments for and against global warming :

 *  Arguments To Prove Global Warming is Real  *

There is many scientists who argue that global warming is real and base most of their evidence interpreting the change in the levels of gases in the atmosphere and the ocean.

They say that actual warming of temperature is something they can document, but the main evidence is drawn from detecting what precedes a temperature rise – the change and effect of atmospheric gases on the Earth’s environment.

* 1st Argument – Rise in Sea Level *
In many areas of the world sea level is rising. Part of the cause is said to be the melting of ice caps and glaciers, but more is atributed to the gases contained in the sea and their changes . Just in the last 10 years the global mean sea levels have doubled compared to the 20th-century trend of 1.6 mm per year and is accelerating slightly every year. The global sea levels rose about 8 inches in the last century.

According to a research climate change–driven accelerated sea-level rise detected in the altimeter era and it says, if sea level continues to change at this rate and acceleration, sea-level rise by 2100 (∼65 cm) will be more than double the amount if the rate was constant at 3 mm/y.

* 2nd Argument  – Rise in Earth’s Average Temperature *
In the past century and a half global temperature continues to rise.  The global atmospheric temperature is being tracked since the 1800s , It's being pointed out by scientists that the steady rise was observed with a stronger period in the 70s, a halt in the rise  in the 90s and a return to the rising pattern in the 2000s.

Since the late 19th century, the planet’s average surface temperature has risen by about 0.9 degrees Celsius,  a change is said to be driven largely by increased carbon dioxide and other human-made emissions into the atmosphere.

Majority of the warming occurred just in the past 35 years, with the six warmest years on record taking place since 2014. NASA, NOAA Data Show, not only was 2016 the warmest year on record, but eight out of the total 12 months that make up the year from January through September, with the exception of June were the warmest on record for those respective months.

Third Argument – Rise in Ocean Temperature
The rise in the number of vehicles and industries has resulted in greenhouse gases getting trapped in the atmosphere. The increased heat in the atmosphere from greenhouse gas emissions has been absorbed by the oceans with the top 700 meters (about 2,300 feet) of ocean showing warming of more than 0.4 degrees Fahrenheit since 1969.

There are over 50 years of documented temperature records for the oceans that have recorded a steady rise in its temperature since 1969.

In addition, 2019 was the warmest in the 65-year record of ocean observations, based on the analysis by researchers from NCEI and the Institute of Atmospheric Physics in Beijing. The five highest years on record for annual ocean heat content (OHC) are 2015–2019. “These data reveal that the world oceans were the warmest in recorded human history in 2019,” the authors concluded.

Argument 4 – Shrinking Glaciers
Glaciers are so sensitive to temperature fluctuations that they provide clues about the effects of global warming. The glaciers on several mountain ranges, particularly in Greenland and Antarctica, are decreasing in size due to the reduction in gases that help to maintain temperatures and changes in the region’s climate. This is the case almost everywhere around the world including in the Alps, Himalayas, Andes, Rockies, Alaska and Africa.

Studies conducted by NASA’s Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment show Greenland lost 36 to 60 cubic miles of ice every year between 2000 and 2006.

Argument 5 – Ocean Acidification
Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, the acidity of surface ocean waters has increased by about 30 percent. The acid level in the ocean is increasing, which is making the oceans of the world more acidic.

This is due to the emission of more harmful gases like carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by humans, which is getting absorbed by the oceans. This is resulting in an increase of algae blooms and mass fish deaths, as well as a change to the chemical composition of the water.
The amount of carbon dioxide absorbed by the upper layer of the oceans is increasing by about 2 billion tons per year.


Many scientists make a strong case against global warming being real. They often look towards the same evidence as those in favor of proving its existence but draw different conclusions. They also look at some evidence not considered in other arguments. These scientists hold to a strict definition of global warming as being defined as a rise in atmospheric temperature; they do not consider the atmospheric precursors as valid evidence.

Argument 1 – No Significant and Prolonged Temperature Changes Since 1997
Scientists who argue against global warming say global warming isn’t real because since the 90s there hasn’t been a significant temperature change. The upswing in the temperature started from 1975, continued till 1997, and the temperature has been flat since then, which clearly states that there isn’t any significant change in temperature in the last 17 years.

The natural variability, volcanic eruptions, and relatively low solar activity, the rate of average global surface warming from 1998-2012 were slower than it had been for two to three decades leading up to it that raise the slowdown into a slogan: “Global warming stopped in 1998.”
In scientific journals and assessment reports, climate experts described the episode as a “pause” or “hiatus” in the previous decades’ rapid warming.

Argument 2 – Not Enough Historical Data Available
There is no consensus about global warming being real among scientists. Advocates also point towards the fact that a recent gathering of 31,000 scientists in the field of environmental science couldn’t reach a consensus on whether or not global warming is real. They believe that they don’t have long term historical climate data, or the data they have isn’t clear.

We search for the clearest indicators of climate change that we can present to the public so that they can understand what is happening, face reality, and adapt.

Argument 3 – Arctic Ice Increased by 50% Since 2012

Arctic ice increased in volume by 50% in 2012 alone. Core measures of the Arctic ice show that it has increased in volume since 2012, which argues against global warming, causing ice caps to melt.

Climate Depot reported that the latest figures from the National Snow and Ice Data Center, located at the University of Colorado, show that sea ice extent has increased by 40 percent since 2012 – The Danish Polar Portal, which monitors ice and climate in the Arctic, reported on the 12th of September this year.

Few people have even predicted that global warming would cause whole Arctic ice to melt, which contradicts their version.

Argument 4 – Climate Models used are Proven to be Unreliable
The climate model calculations used to predict the effect of global warming have been proven to be flawed, which means that the long term predictions that they have been making are meaningless. Some scientists even argue that any increase in global temperatures could be a natural climate shift.
It is important to note that computer models cannot exactly predict the future, since there are so many unknowns concerning what might happen. Scientists model a range of possible future climates using different scenarios of what the world will ‘look like.’

Each scenario makes different assumptions about important factors. The resulting projection of the future climate for each scenario gives various possibilities for the temperature but within a defined range.

Argument 5 – Early Predictions about the Effects of Warming Have Been Proven Wrong
Advocates who promote arguments against global warming being real, point towards all the dates that have come and gone where predictions were made about effects that never happened. Some instances of wrong predictions are: 
i) Al Gore predicted that all Arctic ice would be gone by 2013. But, on the contrary, Arctic ice is up by 50% since 2012.

ii) In January 1970, Life reported, “Scientists have solid experimental and theoretical evidence to support…the following predictions: In a decade, urban dwellers will have to wear gas masks to survive air pollution…by 1985 air pollution will have reduced the amount of sunlight reaching earth by one half….”. But the case is not the same till now.

iii) Climate, preacher/scientist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, predicted last year that “We’re like… the world is gonna end in 12 years if we don’t address climate change.” We are to see whether this prediction made last year around the time of Earth Day 2019 will materialize.




Billions of snow crabs disappeared from waters around Alaska, cancelling harvest
The Alaska snow crab harvest has been canceled for the first time ever after billions of crustaceans have disappeared from the cold, treacherous waters of the Bering Sea in recent years.

The Alaska Board of Fisheries and North Pacific Fishery Management Council announced last week that the population of snow crab in the Bering Sea fell below the regulatory threshold to open up the fishery.

But the actual numbers behind that decision are shocking: The snow crab population shrank from around 8 billion in 2018 to 1 billion in 2021, according to Benjamin Daly, a researcher with the Alaska Department of Fish and Game.

"Snow crab is by far the most abundant of all the Bering Sea crab species that is caught commercially," Daly told CNN. "So the shock and awe of many billions missing from the population is worth noting -- and that includes all the females and babies."

The Bristol Bay red king crab harvest will also be closed for the second year in a row, the agencies announced.


Officials cited overfishing as their rationale for canceling the seasons. Mark Stichert, the groundfish and shellfish fisheries management coordinator with the state's fish and game department, said that more crab were being fished out of the oceans than could be naturally replaced.

"So there were more removals from the population than there were inputs," Stichert explained at Thursday's meeting.

Between the surveys conducted in 2021 and 2022, he said, mature male snow crabs declined about 40%, with an estimated 45 million pounds left in the entire Bering Sea.

"It's a scary number, just to be clear," Stichert said.

But calling the Bering Sea crab population "overfished" -- a technical definition that triggers conservation measures -- says nothing about the cause of its collapse.


8888888888888888888

"We call it overfishing because of the size level," Michael Litzow, the Kodiak lab director for NOAA Fisheries, told CNN. "But it wasn't overfishing that caused the collapse, that much is clear."

Litzow says human-caused climate change is a significant factor in the crabs' alarming disappearance.

Snow crabs are cold-water species and found overwhelmingly in areas where water temperatures are below 2 degrees Celsius, Litzow says. As oceans warm and sea ice disappears, the ocean around Alaska is becoming inhospitable for the species.

"There have been a number of attribution studies that have looked at specific temperatures in the Bering Sea or Bering Sea ice cover in 2018, and in those attribution studies, they've concluded that those temperatures and low-ice conditions in the Bering sea are a consequence of global warming," Litzow said.

Temperatures around the Arctic have warmed four times faster than the rest of the planet, scientists have reported. Climate change has triggered a rapid loss in sea ice in the Arctic region, particularly in Alaska's Bering Sea, which in turn has amplified global warming.

"Closing the fisheries due to low abundance and continuing research are the primary efforts to restore the populations at this point," Ethan Nichols, an assistant area management biologist with the Alaska Department of Fish and Game, told CNN.

Stichert also said that there might be some "optimism for the future" as a few, small juvenile snow crabs are starting to appear in the system. But it could be at least three to four more years before they hit maturity and contribute to the regrowth of the population.

"It is a glimmer of optimism," Litzow said. "That's better than not seeing them, for sure. We get a little bit warmer every year and that variability is higher in Arctic ecosystems and high latitude ecosystems, and so if we can get a cooler period that would be good news for snow crab."
